Errata-1315703 WA disabled in Neoverse N1 SDP
=============================================

The patch https://git.linaro.org/landing-teams/working/arm/n1sdp-pcie-quirk.git/tree/arm-tf/0001-n1sdp-arm-tf-disable-workaround-for-N1-Erratum-13157.patch
is applied by default to the N1SDP stack to disable the workaround for Erratum 1315703 so that the N1 CPU
performance in N1SDP better reflects that of released versions of the N1 for software that does not require mitigation for Spectre Variant 4.

N1DP uses N1 version r1p0, which is affected by Erratum 1315703, which
is fixed in N1 r3p1.  The workaround for r1p0 disables the CPU performance
feature of bypassing of stores by younger loads.  This can significantly
affect performance.  The Erratum is classified "Cat A (Rare)" and requires
a specific sequence of events to occur.

Disabling this CPU performance feature is also the mitigation for Spectre
Variant 4 (CVE-2018-3639).  On CPUs that provide the PSTATE.SBSS feature,
the OS selectively applies the mitigation only to programs that require it,
leaving the performance of other programs unaffected.  However, N1 r1p0
does not have the PSTATE.SBSS feature (which is introduced in N1 r3p1), and
Arm-TF does not provide the interface to to dynamically disable the CPU
performance feature.  Therefore, applying the workaround penalizes ALL
software running on N1 SDP, including those that do not require mitigation.

This patch is meant for performance evaluation purposes ONLY and should not
be used for software that requires a seccomp computing environment.

--------------

*Copyright (c) 2019, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.*

